Zone Concepts:

Northern regions:

Starter - Tallow Key - Small village set alongside the Keyflow river running down out of the northern mountain ranges. Temperate/cold region where the winters run long and wildlife thrives just beyond the reach of settled lands. Little lay upriver, forests and lumber are fairly plentiful and farming is mediocre at best. The mainstays of the region are hardy crops like onions, garlic and peas along with livestock such as cattle and sheep, especially sheep due to the added benefit of the fleece they yield. The village gets it name from the abundant amount of tallow produced by the farmers of the region, which in tandem with the fast flowing river that passes through the village, provides the townsfolk with a means of income with the occasional trading ship that makes its way down the Keyflow river and sells off the excess to the larger township of Rushlight Crossing (which also owes it namesake to the candles commonly made from the tallow). A few hardy folk make their living ferrying goods down river from Tallow Key to Rushlight, using the currents to glide the hauls down quickly, then making the arduous trip back upriver using poles and pushing along the shallows. Sometimes merchants from Rushlight earn double by offering to haul the narrow boats back up to Tallow's Key strapped to the tops of their caravans, also hauling odds ands ends back up north for the country folk to purchase.

Abbatoir (name for building where animals are slaughtered, french origin), -- Abbatoir Road - Narrow road, narrow and mostly unfit for any sizable cart that winds near the river stemming northward from Tallow Key. Hard packed dirt, slightly rocky, fallen into disuse but shows signs of old use with how low it is set into the earth, though grass now fights to reclaim the hard soil. The occasional low stone wall, mostly collapsed as often as not, shows signs of farmsteads that used to cling to life in the progressively harder climates heading toward the mountains. A few families still cling to their old family lands, tending their flocks and eeking a living out of meager harvests, combined with trade down in Tallow's Key for whatever food they cannot provide themselves. The road is mostly safe, being so far from more heavily travelled roads it doesn't hold the dangers of thieves or cutthroats, but because so few travel the road there are occasionally animals bold enough to set upon a lone traveler. Wolves, wild dogs and even once in a great while perhaps a smaller black bear that has been forced out by bigger animals and is desperate enough to eat that they would risk facing humans along the road.

Aradhol Ruins -- far north along abbatoir road, mountains looming in sight -- (some other threat? Not undead or orcs/goblins... something a little less played out. Maybe rumors from town of forest-folk [brownies, pixies] that can be found in the ruins) Maybe an underground area of the ruins could hold greater threats, but requires a certain level of perception to detect. The ruins are nothing much beyond mounds of collapsed stone walls and the outlines of what must have long ago been foundations for buildings of varying sizes. The ruins stretch on for some ways, hinting at was once a large settlement, and likely a last stop for travellers heading into the mountain passes or towards whatever lay beyond the ridgespines. Younger trees, if already many spans tall, push up among the ruins, slowly but surely reclaiming the land to match it to the sparse woodlands that cover the landscape. The ruins are still fairly open compared to the forested land further south, but between the thinner trees pushing up through the old rubble and the handful of bushes that follow suit there is some cover to be found among the ancient stonework. Long faded engravings of what now has the look of crudely shapen birds due to the wear of time adorn the occasional piece of masonry that hasn't crumbled to pieces too small to showcase the old reliefs.

Ridgespine Mountains -- wolves, bears?? ... cold weather inhibits travel, gearcheck, statscheck on bears, further in maybe larger threats like giants/ogres/trolls?-- beyond the ruins to the north there are several shoot off paths that wind up into the rocky ways. This far north few men travel at all, for there is littke to draw them this far afield and almost nobody claims to know what lay beyond the Ridgespine Mountains, those who do claim to know are quick to change the topic if pressed for concrete answers. Old tales tell of rich kingdoms long fallen that once thrived on mines of silver and iron, now thought to be only endlessly empty tunnels of rock carving through the bitterly cold stone. The stories claim that in ages passed the winters weren't as harsh and that the mountains used to be mild enough to raise livestock, if it can be believed that the flocks could find feed admist the rocky ledges, or perhaps oats and the like needed to be hauled into the mountains if the tales hold any truth.

Ewe Trail - West from Tallow Key, heading down the Ewe Trail, where the road is well worn with time but stil not travelled heavily aside from the first hundred leagues or so where farmers from the countryside make their way into Tallow's Key with some regularity, the road is forgiving compared to the rough terrain of the region. Wide and flat, though still hardpacked of soil with the dense northern earth made hard from long winters. It winds slowly back and forth easing north and south again, to and fro, while easing westarly, making its way gradually more south than north over time. Narrow paths branch off heading to the various farmsteads than make the lands west of Tallow's Key their home. These farms are the most mild, and game in this region is plentiful with foxes and badgers yielding pelts and meat that supplement the already comparitively rich harvests of peas, carrots and even some barley that does better the most mild of the lands in the harsh north. Wolves roam the woodlands between farms, as prey is plentiful, but with the amount of townsfolk living and traveling this section of road attacks are rarer than north of the Key.

Burrow's Field - Along the Ewe Trail westward enough lay a cluster of farms where several families have come together to share a berth of land where the trees are less dense and the crops grow best out of the regions near the Key. Not quite enough to truly be a town itself, and most here still travel east to the Key to make trade and share festival times, some do still think of this cluster of farms as a sort of township. Often called Burrow's Field this cluster of homes can sometimes provide refuge to a tired traveler or maybe some odd goods for trade, though there isn't any true inn or shop to be had. Beyond Burrow's Field to the west the road grows less travelled by far and as it winds further south the weather may grow more mild but the soil is none the more fertile for it and the trees become so dense that fewer and fewer homesteads can be found more than a few dozen leagues along the trail.

The Deepwood Wind -- Once the road turns due south a few days walk from Burrow's Field, passed the last of the homsteads and farms that you pass, the trees start to grow tight together and ancient oaks start to dominate the land with their wide reaching arms and thick tops that make it hard to see far around the canopy, even when leaf cover is bare in colder months. The road here that runs through the woods is not used as often as there is a long way between stops for supplies and the massive old trees force the road to cut back and forth through the thick forest, forcing travelers to spend much longer coming and going from the Keyflow region than if they were to take the eastern roads closer to the river itself. Less traffic finds itself along the winding road cutting through the trees, and you can never see more than a half a league ahead with all the twisting the road does. These conditions lead to more attacks by wolves and bears than in many other places, as well as the occasional robbers that set upon those brave enough to risk the long winding road through the deep woods. The road doesn't split often, but when it does there is little or no marking to indicate the true path aside from the heavier usage. Following such a sidetrack can be a dangerous mistake indeed, as any other traveler along those tangents would likely as soon not be found at all.

Knotwoood's Split -- A modest village of woodcutters and hunters lay on the southern reaches of the Deepwood, chimneys always burning to keep a cozy feel about the cluster of homes and inns where the hunters stay while in town. While the northern road into the woods isn't used much for fear of the long road into the trees, the roads heading east and west see decent travel, and merchants come and go with some regularity to collect the lumber, pelts and game brought in by the locals. While the people who live in Knotwood are kindly enough, some rough faces come and go, spending a few days and nights at one of the few inns before delving into the deepwood for weeks at a time to collect their means to an end. Among these rough faces are sometimes individuals who are heading into the woods to avoid being found.

Thorn's Drag Road -- East along the Thorn's Drag Road from Knotwood's Split the forest thins out into more open lands where you can start to find homesteads and farms again, as far north as the dozen leagues or so to where the woods push out all the way back to the Keyflow, anyway. The lands south along the road are kinder and paths split off that way as well to even more abodes where you can see signs of families working livestock and also dude ranches where the regions stock of horses is brought up. The southern ways don't lead beyond those homesteads, though, and the only real destination heading east from Knotwood is to eventually come to Rushlight Crossing, nestled up against the still fast flowing waters of the Keyflow.

Rushlight Crossing -- The river starts to thin before Rushlight, narrowing enough that river trade doesn't continue further south but instead merchants take up the task on the roads instead, heading west along the Thorn's Drag to Knotwood Split and beyond or east from Rushlight along the Flowers Course. Between the wool, tallow and meats from Tallow's Key, the lumber and pelts from Knotwood, and the various crops coming in from the east, Rushlight Crossing is easily the largest hub of activity in the northern regions. Traffic flows steadily in from east and west while some make their way up and down the river as well, making it a busy enough city, if not one of the greater cities, to find oneself lost in a crowd. There are at least a dozen inn's scattered around the often muddy roads and those roads stretch on enough that one could spend days investigating all the various storefronts, shops and stalls that make up the stretches of roadside between the variety of smaller squat houses and larger buildings where as many as a dozen small families share their homes wall to wall in townhouses that most country folk would find far too crowded. Rushlight spans across the river, with a myriad of small docks and jetties dotting the length of water that passes under a number of cobblestone bridges that span the now narrowing river. The city stretches a good ways away from the river on eiter bank, making it hard to say whether it lay to the east or west of the water, but instead more or less right on top of it. The nicer side of town is no doubt to the east, however, where the country continues to grow even more mild and open.

Flower's Course -- Heading east out of Rushlight Crossing the land starts to ease into slowly rolling hills of lush grass and fields of yellow and white flowers. The springs and summers here give the region and the roadway its name and is a favorite stretch for most to travel. The hills glide up and down slowly enough that one can see for a long ways off and the people coming and going are steady enough most times of the year that few feel any real danger along the Flower's Course. Not too far east of the crossing at Rushlightm, about a day's ride, the course winds north and lopes easily back up towards Tallow's Key, where one can make the trip in a little over a week's time at a decent pace by cart or horseback. The road is dotted with farms reaping the benefits of this mild country and raising rich harvests for the span of a few days travel before the land grows hard and rocky as the road makes its way back north. At the turn toward Tallow's Key the road splits off and one can see highway markers for the road that leads south toward the more densely settled central lands of Tiran, along what's commonly called the Baked Road, though in truth it is marked as the King's Thoroughfare.

The Sunbaked Road -- The Old King's Thoroughfare is called the baked road by most because most of the year it holds its dry crusty shape firmly due to the heavy ratio of clay in the soil along its lengths, and how the longer southern summer sun leaves it reddish and crisp like a crudely made brick road, if lacking for the look of laid bricks and still riddled with cart tracks and hoofprints. The country here is not quite arid, but it is by no means a wetland either. The Keyflow tapers off and eventually dwindles to naught, passing underground well before The Sunbaked Road runs back west to the south of Rushlight Crossing. The country along the roads is open, and does hold some homesteads but isn't too densely settled if only because of its expansiveness. The Sunbaked Road runs far east and west with some smaller villages of little note along each direction, eventually softening as it makes its way into the marshlands to the east and growing even harder still as it reaches west where the land grows arid in earnest. The red waste is split open only by the King's Thoroughfare, though so many turn south at its edge that another road has formed there, the Sparrow's Dive.

town -- sunbaked road east before marshlands

town -- sunbaked road west before sparrow/redwaste

Sparrow's Dive -- This relatively newer road cropped up along the eastern edge of the red waste, made by travellers avoiding the barren region and trying to make a shorter route tothe lands south in the Tiran kingdom. The effort was successful, and now there are even a couple small towns along the way

town -- along Sparrow's Dive road before river

town -- along sparrow's dive where river starts up, edging away from wastes, river leads down to Tiran

The Red Waste -- 

The Eastern Marshlands -- 



